Welcome to the section challenge.
This has been a long section and it has a lot to learn.
Pointers can be tricky and intimidating but here's a real nice challenge that will help you understand
pointers and dynamic memory allocation.
So I've given you a bit of a star and I've written part of the main for you and you just have to write
two functions.
You have to write a print function that should be pretty easy and then you have to write and apply all
function that I'll talk about in a second and we'll walk right through this real quick.
OK.
So let's go back up to the top of the challenge here.
And what I'd like you to do is write those two functions.
But the first one let's talk about the first one rattus C++ function and apply all how this function
expects to arrays of integers and their sizes and it dynamically allocates a new array of integers whose
size is the size of 1 times the size of the other.
And when you want to do is you want to loop through the second array and multiply each element across
each element of the other array.
Sounds complicated.
It's not.
Let me walk you through exactly what I'm talking about.
So here's the function.
So it expects to arrays array one and array two and it expects the sizes for this to erase.
You can see right here re 1 2 5 and 3.
So let's say that this is array 1 it's 1 2 3 4 and 5.
This is array 1 and then we've got array to which contains 10 20 and 30 K so we're passing these two
pointers basically read array names into that function and we're passing along five which is how many
elements are in disarray and 3 which is how many elements of this right now that function is going to
dynamically allocate an array that's 15 big five times three and those numbers could varied.
So in this case what we want to do is we want to take each element in array 2 and multiply it across
all the elements of array 1 so 10 times one is ten ten times two is 20.
Ten times three is 30.
We've got the 40 and we have a 50 OK.
Then what we want to do is we want to go through here and now go to the next array element in array
2.
So that's 20 to 20 times one is 20 20 times to 40 20 times three is 60 20 times for is 80.
And finally 20 times five is 100 OK.
Then the last thing is go through that last number so now we're at the 30 and we're in about 30 times
one which is 30 you get it you get the idea 60 90 120 150.
So this here is the newly created array that you're going to create dynamically on the heap.
We want to return the address of this array which is the address of this guy right here from the function.
That function returns the address which we store right here in that pointer variable results then we
pass results to the print function with a 15.
And this is what we get from this example let me clear the screen real quick.
So here's a one I call the print function.
I pass array one into it and it's going to display that then I'll put a right to and then I call the
print function.
I pass an array to the three.
I get that I call this function it dynamically creates that array does the multiplication it stores
all the values into that not the dynamically allocated array and it returns the address of that array
and we store the end results then we pass results and 15.
And that's what we get.
OK so what you need to do again one more time you need to write the Apply all function in the print
function.
Now the Apply all function expects array 1 and its size array 2 and its size.
You could decide what the types are going to be.
The print function expects an array and a size.
Now obviously this guy who returns a pointer to an integer doesn't return anything.
So that's roughly your out your function prototypes you have to decide what these types here are going
to be.
OK that's it.
Test your code and have fun.
If you need to use the debugger go for it.
Meet me on the other side of the challenge and I'll show you my solution.